# Installing a GNU/Linux VM

PA0 is designed to help you to set up a complete environment for the following PAs. Firstly, a virtual machine is necessary to deal with all PAs and Labs in this term. So you are supposed to install it CAREFULLY and make sure you had set up everything mentioned in the text.

## FBI WARNING

As you started doing PAs and labs, please DO NOT CHANGE ANYTHING in your operating systems(such as upgrading, re-installing your os, changing some key settings) or you might suffering from a disease that you will LOST EVERYTHING you had done to the VM, or more seriously, your code.

## For GNU/Linux Users

It is not necessary for you to install a vm in your system, for the reason that our experiments are based on the GNU/Linux, you may skip this page to set up environment  now.

## We support using GNU/Linux out of VMs

It is strongly recommended for you to install a GNU/Linux system in your computer, existing with the other  systems installed already, to acquire the maximum running efficiency of your computer. But this seems to complex for you, so we just tell you this but not provided more information. If you're interested in it, you may search the Internet. ***If you had done that, you may get more scores in this part, PA0.***

## Installing Oracle Virtual Box 

You may found the latest version of Virtual Box on [this page in the website](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads). If you are Windows user, please download the `Windows hosts` and install it. If you are using a mac with OS X system, please download the `OS X hosts` then install it.

If you have trouble installing it to your computer, please take a look at the [online manual of Oracle Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/) before asking others.

### WARNING

***It is not recommended for you to use a VPS (such as Aliyun, Tencent Cloud, etc.) to do experiments*** because the way a VPS run (It usually runs in a container rather than on real hardware environment.) is not the same as a virtual machine ( which runs in the virtualized hardware environment.) and you might encounter with some unknown problems when you doing your experiments. What's more, servers are designed to deploy projects rather than developing  projects so it is not wise to use it.

## Getting a GNU/Linux package

Only `Debian` and `Ubuntu` system are supported in our experiments. So don't try to use other Linux systems (such as CentOS, Red Hat) to do experiments, not for that it's unable to do, but you will encounter with unknown problems running PAs and labs.

```
Debian and Ubuntu are both types of Linux. What are the common and different points betweent them? Please search the Internet and answer this.
```

You may get the latest version of Debian [here on the official website](https://www.debian.org/releases/stable/debian-installer/). But we recommend you to use a mirror source in the mainland of China, for some reasons you might be already aware of. You may download anyone in the following mirror list :

```
Netease Mirror:
http://mirrors.163.com/debian-cd/9.6.0/i386/iso-cd/debian-9.6.0-i386-netinst.iso

USTC Mirror:
http://mirrors.ustc.edu.cn/debian-cd/9.6.0/i386/iso-cd/debian-9.6.0-i386-netinst.iso
```

Note that wherever you download the package from, please choose the `32-bit` version (or you may see `i386` version on the website). If you install a `64-bit` version (the same meaning of `amd64`), you may be unable to complete labs later. It's the same if you are trying to download Ubuntu as your experiment environment. Note that Ubuntu is now not providing 32-bit versions after [Uubuntu 16.04](http://mirrors.163.com/ubuntu-releases/16.04/ubuntu-16.04.5-desktop-i386.iso) (you may click to download it from Netease Mirror :->).





